1- Principal component analysis (PCA) is an unsupervised machine learning technique. 
2- Perhaps the most popular use of principal component analysis is dimensionality reduction. 
3- Besides using PCA as a data preparation technique, we can also use it to help visualize data. 
4- PCA comes under the Unsupervised Machine Learning category
5- Reducing the number of variables in a data collection while retaining as much information as feasible is the main goal of PCA. 
6- PCA can be mainly used for Dimensionality Reduction and also for important feature selection.
7- Correlated features to Independent features
8- PCA is not required unless you have a dataset with a large number of attributes. 
9- Generally, when we deal with real-world data we encounter a huge messy dataset with a large number of attributes.
10- If we apply any Machine Learning model on a huge dataset without reducing its dimensions then it would be computationally expensive.
11- PCA can not be applied to the dataset with null values. Hence, you need to treat null values before proceeding with PCA.   
12- There are different ways of treating null values such as dropping the variables and imputing the missing data using mean or median.
13- We shouldn’t apply PCA on the dataset having attributes on different scales. We need to standardize variables before applying PCA.
14- Unless specified, the number of principal components will be equal to the number of attributes.
15- Our dataset has 18 attributes initially hence we get 18 principal components. These components are new variables which are in fact a linear combination of input variables.
16- Principal components are uncorrelated with each other. 
17- These principal components are known as eigenvectors and the variances explained by each eigenvector is known as eigenvalues.
18- Covariance: With covariance, we can estimate the degree to which analogous components from a couple of sets of grouped data move in an identical direction. 
19- In simple words, it is used to identify the dependencies and relationships between the characteristics of datasets.
20- PCA is sensitive to the scale, if we normalized each feature by StandardScaler we can see a better result.
21- PCA is sensitive to the scale of the data, and if the data is not scaled properly, the results of PCA may not be accurate. 
22- Therefore, it is recommended to normalize each feature by StandardScaler before applying PCA to the data. 
23- This will ensure that the different features are on the same scale and will result in a better PCA result. 
24- By scaling the data before PCA, the different classes in the dataset become more distinctive, which makes it easier for a simple model such as SVM to classify the dataset with high accuracy.
25- The difference between normalized PCA and non-normalized PCA can be seen in the plot of the transformed data. 
26- If the data is not scaled before PCA, the different classes may overlap, making it difficult to distinguish between them.
27- PCA analysis helps you reduce or eliminate similar data in the line of comparison that does not even contribute a bit to decision making. You have to be clear that PCA analysis reduces dimensionality without any data loss.